SortBooks Editorial (#4815)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/platinum/izho-19-HedgehogDaniyarAndAlgorithms.mdx

swaps we need to make in order to sort an array in non-decreasing order.
How can we use this idea to find the minimum value of $k$ needed to sort
the array?

</Spoiler>

<Spoiler title = "Explanation">

In our array, we only need to swap elements that are inversions. That is
to say, if we have a pair $(i, j)$ where $i < j$ and $w_i > w_j$, then we
will need to swap them when sorting the array. Thus, the answer is the maximum
value of $w_i + w_j$ among all inversion pairs.

To answer the queries, we sweep right to left on the left endpoint whilst
maintaining some data structure to keep track of the minimum value of $k$ for
all the right endpoints. One key observation to make is that if at our current
indice $i$ there exists a $j$ where $i < j$ and $w_i \leq w_j$, then we can't
increase the value of any inversion pairs where the second value's index is
greater than $j$. Thus, we only need to worry about updating the inversion pair
values on the range $[i + 1, j - 1]$. To find said value of $j$, we utilize a
monotonic stack.

The most straightforward way to solve the problem from here is to use a lazy
segment tree to keep track of the best inversion pair value for each indice

> (where the value of an inversion pair $(i, j)$ is stored at index $j$)

Reviewer: good point

	Info qry(int ql, int qr) { return qry(1, 0, n - 1, ql, qr); }
};

struct Tag {
	int added_val = -1;
	/** applies another lazy update to this update */
	void apply(const Tag &t) {
		if (t.added_val != -1) { added_val = t.added_val; }
	}
};

struct Info {
	int mx = -1;
	int applied = -1;
	/** applies an update to this tree node */
	void apply(const Tag &t, int l, int r) {
		if (t.added_val != -1) { applied = mx + t.added_val; }
	}
};

/** @return result of joining nodes a and b together */
Info operator+(const Info &a, const Info &b) {
	return {max(a.mx, b.mx), max(a.applied, b.applied)};
}

int main() {
	int n, q;
	cin >> n >> q;
	vector<int> w(n);
	for (int &i : w) { cin >> i; }

	vector<Info> arr(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		/*
		 * The default applied value (a.k.a. inversion pair value) must be
		 * initially set to 0, so that indices that aren't in an inversion pair
		 * will be effectively ignored by the segment tree.
		 */
		arr[i] = {w[i], 0};
	}
	LazySegtree<Info, Tag> st(arr);

	vector<vector<array<int, 3>>> tests(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < q; i++) {
		int l, r, k;
		cin >> l >> r >> k;
		--l, --r;
		tests[l].push_back({r, k, i});
	}

	vector<bool> res(q);

> 	stack<int> stk;

Reviewer 2: stk might not be the best name 👀

Reviewer: what name would you recommend

must swap them when sorting the array. Thus, the answer is the maximum
value of $w_i + w_j$ among all inversion pairs.

To answer the queries, we sweep right to left on the left endpoint whilst
maintaining some data structure to keep track of the minimum value of $k$ for
all the right endpoints. One key observation to make is that if at our current
index $i$ there exists a $j$ where $i < j$ and $w_i \leq w_j$, then we can't
increase the value of any inversion pairs where the second value's index is
greater than $j$. Thus, we only need to update the inversion pair
values on the range $[i + 1, j - 1]$. To find the said value of $j$, we utilize a
monotonic stack.

The most straightforward way to solve the problem from here is to use a lazy
segment tree to keep track of the best inversion pair value for each index
(where the value of an inversion pair $(i, j)$ is stored at index $j$)
and the best inversion pair value on a range. To implement this, notice how
every inversion pair value stored at an index $j$ is $w_j + x$, where $x$ is
some value $w_i$. Thus, we can use a range update to apply the best value of $x$.

> Note that a more elegant (although less intuitive) Binary Indexed Tree solution

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that a more elegant (although less intuitive) solution with BITs
```

also exists. For that solution, we utilize a BIT to keep track of the prefix
maximum value and update it while popping items in our monotonic stack.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}((N + Q)\log{N})$

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

> template <class Info, class Tag> class LazySegtree {

Reviewer 3: ok, _now_ is this consistent w the rurq one
if so you can codesnip this

Reviewer: done

	}
};

/** @return result of joining nodes a and b together */
Info operator+(const Info &a, const Info &b) {
	return {max(a.mx, b.mx), max(a.applied, b.applied)};
}

int main() {
	int n, q;
	cin >> n >> q;
	vector<int> w(n);
	for (int &i : w) { cin >> i; }

	vector<Info> arr(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		/*
		 * The default applied value (a.k.a. inversion pair value) must be
		 * initially set to 0, so that indices that aren't in an inversion pair
		 * will be effectively ignored by the segment tree.
		 */
		arr[i] = {w[i], 0};
	}
	LazySegtree<Info, Tag> st(arr);

	vector<vector<array<int, 3>>> tests(n);
	for (int i = 0; i < q; i++) {
		int l, r, k;
		cin >> l >> r >> k;
		--l, --r;
		tests[l].push_back({r, k, i});
	}

	vector<bool> res(q);
	stack<int> indices;
	for (int i = n - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
		// maintain a monotonic stack to find the first index j where w[i] >= w[j]
		while (!indices.empty() && w[indices.top()] < w[i]) { indices.pop(); }
		int b = indices.empty() ? n : indices.top();
		indices.push(i);
		st.upd(i + 1, b - 1, {w[i]});
		for (auto [r, k, idx] : tests[i]) { res[idx] = st.qry(i, r).applied <= k; }
	}

> 	for (int i = 0; i < q; i++) { cout << res[i] << "\n"; }

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	for (int i = 0; i < q; i++) { cout << res[i] << '\n'; }
